Pforzheim University of Applied Sciences - Design, Technology, Economics and Law (Pforzheim University) is a state university of applied sciences in the state of Baden-Württemberg. It is a founding member of the Baden-Württemberg Association of Universities of Applied Sciences, which was established in 2022.[3] It is divided into three faculties: Design, Engineering and Business and Law.

Founded in the Grand Duchy of Baden
Founded in 1877 by Grand Duke Friedrich I in Pforzheim, the Grand Ducal School of Arts and Crafts and Technical College for the Metal Industry was primarily intended to train specialists for the Pforzheim jewelry and watch industry. It was renamed Badische Kunstgewerbeschule in 1937, Staatliche Meisterschule in 1940 and Vereinigte Goldschmiede-, Kunst- und Werkschule in 1952.
Expansion and restructuring after the Second World War

In 1963, the State Higher Business College was founded. In 1971, the School of Arts and Crafts and other predecessor institutions became the College of Design. The former Higher Business School was transferred to the University of Applied Sciences for Economics.

In 1992, the University of Applied Sciences for Design and the University of Applied Sciences for Business were merged to form the University of Applied Sciences Pforzheim - University of Applied Sciences for Design, Technology and Business. Engineering courses were introduced in 1995. In 1996, the Business Law course was introduced. In 2005, the name was changed to Pforzheim University of Applied Sciences - Design, Technology, Business and Law.
International profile

The university cooperates with over 100 partner universities. It was one of the first in the world to commit to the "Principles for Responsible Management Education" initiated by the UN as part of the Global Compact Initiative. It has been certified as a "family-friendly university" since 2012.

Faculties

The university offers 29 Bachelor's and 20 Master's degree programs in the following faculties

    Faculty of Design (650 students)
    Faculty of Engineering (2000 students)
    Faculty of Business and Law (3300 students)

The Faculty of Business and Law, as well as the degree programs in Industrial Engineering and Engineering and Management, are accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). This makes Pforzheim University one of eleven universities in Germany to be accredited for one of the highest international quality standards for business schools. It was also the first university of applied sciences in Germany to be AACSB-accredited. The technical degree programs are accredited by ASIIN, the business degree programs by AQAS. 

Locations
Tiefenbronner Straße 65 and 66

    Headquarters of the university and the Faculties of Engineering and Business and Law
    Central university library and Audimax
    Main canteen and cafeteria
    University Administration, Rectorate, StudiCenter and Examination Office, International Office, Legal Office, University Information Center / Computer Center (HIZ, Campus IT), Technical Operations
    AStA / Student Union and Initiative Offices
    Language Center / Institute for Foreign Languages (IFS)
    Research institutes: Institute for Applied Research (IAF), Jewelry Technology Institute (STI), Institute for Human Engineering & Empathic Design Pforzheim (heedPF), Institute for Industrial Ecology (INEC), Institute for Human Resources Research (IfP), Institute for Materials and Materials Technologies (Testing Laboratory for Materials Testing) (IWWT), Institute for Smart Systems and Services (IoS³), Institute for Smart Bicycle Technology (ISBT)
    Center for Precision Technology (ZPT)
    Headquarters of the Academy at Pforzheim University (AHP) with part-time continuing education programs
The Engineering and Management (MEM) course has its permanent course room in T2.3.08 in the university's T2 building. Almost all lectures take place in this room. The course room also has a coffee machine and a couch.
The couch or sofa was sponsored by Prof. Dr. Raphael Volz.
